Added syntax derived from Stefan Teleman's #446 (#450)
openqasm/openqasm: source/language/types.rst

The size of an array is constant and immutable, and is recorded once, at
declaration time.

Arrays allocate a contiguous block of memory of suitable size and alignment to
accommodate the storage of its elements.

If the array declaration is direct-initialized via initializer list, its elements
are initialized to the values provided by the initializer list.  Otherwise, the
memory allocated is not initialized, and that memory's content is undefined.

Partial initialization via initializer list is allowed - i.e. the initializer
list is incomplete, and does not provide values for all the elements of the array.
In this case, the elements that are not initialized via initializer list are not
initialized, and their values are undefined.

As a special case, a direct initializer list declaration of the form:

 ``array[<type>, <size>] <identifier> = { <X> };``

will initialize all the elements of the array to <X>, where <X> is of a type
suitable for initializing an element of the array, and if and only if the array
element type supports direct initialization from such a type.

It is unspecified whether the memory allocation of an array is of static storage

> duration, or it is obtained via dynamic allocation. This property is implementation

Reviewer: I'm confused by the word "duration" here. Would it be okay to say "it is unspecified whether the memory allocation of the an array is static or obtained via dynamic allocation"?

Author: Added language per this discussion

memory allocated is not initialized, and that memory's content is undefined.

Partial initialization via initializer list is allowed - i.e. the initializer
list is incomplete, and does not provide values for all the elements of the array.
In this case, the elements that are not initialized via initializer list are not
initialized, and their values are undefined.

As a special case, a direct initializer list declaration of the form:

 ``array[<type>, <size>] <identifier> = { <X> };``

will initialize all the elements of the array to <X>, where <X> is of a type
suitable for initializing an element of the array, and if and only if the array
element type supports direct initialization from such a type.

It is unspecified whether the memory allocation of an array is of static storage
duration, (meaning the allocation is alive for as long as the object is in scope and
gets automatically reclaimed by the runtime when the object goes out of scope)
or it is obtained via dynamic allocation (meaning the allocation persists through the lifetime
of the program, unless the program itself releases it back to the operating system).

> This property is implementation dependent.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear to me why this needs to be said. There's nothing here that I disagree with, but I just don't see how to operationalize it -- I don't know of any other part of the spec that talks about storage classes or memory management. It seems like a user just has no way of knowing the difference here, and so probably wouldn't care.

The first argument to the ``array`` declaration is the base type
of the array. The supported classical types include various sizes of ``bit``,
``int``, ``uint``, ``float``, ``complex``, and ``angle``, as well as
``bool`` and ``duration``. Note that ``stretch`` is not a valid array
base type.

Arrays cannot be resized or reshaped. Arrays are statically typed, and cannot
implicitly convert to or from any other type.

The size of an array is constant and immutable, and is recorded once, at
declaration time.

Arrays allocate a contiguous block of memory of suitable size and alignment to
accommodate the storage of its elements.

If the array declaration is direct-initialized via initializer list, its elements
are initialized to the values provided by the initializer list.  Otherwise, the
memory allocated is not initialized, and that memory's content is undefined.

Partial initialization via initializer list is allowed - i.e. the initializer
list is incomplete, and does not provide values for all the elements of the array.
In this case, the elements that are not initialized via initializer list are not
initialized, and their values are undefined.

> As a special case, a direct initializer list declaration of the form:
> 
>  ``array[<type>, <size>] <identifier> = { <X> };``

Reviewer 3: I can see value in having syntax for initializing all elements to the same value, but this special case syntax that overlaps with the partial-initialization syntax seems unnecessary. (Especially since I imagine the most common form of partial initialization would be to initialize just the first element of say a list of accumulated deltas, which usage is precluded by this special case).

But maybe its ok since you can think of this as *both* partial initialization (where the unspecified elements happen to be initialized to `X`) *and* as constant initialization of the whole array. Assuming we don't care about the cost of initializing more than was needed maybe it's ok. Otherwise, maybe:
```suggestion
As a special case, a direct initializer list declaration of the form:

 ``array[<type>=<X>, <size>] <identifier>;``
```
might be another option for constant initialization of the whole array?

Reviewer 2: I'll chime in and say that I'm not a fan of supporting both partial initialization and the `array[<type>, <size>] <identifier> = { <X> };` initialization above, for the reason that I think the semantics of partial initialization should be basically monotonic (more data specified the initializer list means more elements get initialized). Or to turn this around: it would come as a surprise to me (if I hadn't read the spec) that `array[int, 5] = {3,2}` has more undefined elements than `array[int, 5] = {3}`.

will initialize all the elements of the array to <X>, where <X> is of a type
suitable for initializing an element of the array, and if and only if the array
element type supports direct initialization from such a type.

It is unspecified whether the memory allocation of an array is of static storage
duration, (meaning the allocation is alive for as long as the object is in scope and

> gets automatically reclaimed by the operating system when the object goes out of scope)

Reviewer: Can we go with 'runtime' rather than 'operating system'? 
```suggestion
gets automatically reclaimed by the runtime when the object goes out of scope)
```

or it is obtained via dynamic allocation (meaning the allocation persists through the lifetime
of the program, unless the program itself releases it back to the operating system).
This property is implementation dependent.

If the array memory is obtained via dynamic allocation, the implementation is
responsible for reclaiming the memory when the array object goes out of scope

> (garbage collection).

Reviewer 3: Since all arrays are declared in global scope maybe the real question is whether the compiler chooses to do lifetime analysis and only allocate the array (some time before) when it is first used and deallocate (some time after) the last usage.

Arrays may be passed as parameters or arguments to functions.

> When passed as argument to a function, an array shall not cause a copy spill on
> the stack.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When an array, or slice of an array, is passed as argument to a function, the underlying array storage is referenced rather than copied.
```
